README.md, before:

---
summary: 'Create all the stuff Jed would expect from you before starting to write any code.'
time: '8 hours'
deliverables: '1 InVision board'
submit: 'https://algonquin.instructure.com/courses/847181/assignments/7464325'
---

# eCommerce UX

## Overview

**Throughout the term we’ll be working on the design of a complete website, specifically an eCommerce website.**

We’ll be taking the approach of making a **pattern library**, where each week we’ll be designing different components of the website.

In the second half of the term we’ll take all those common components and use them to build out a **home page**, a **product list page**, and a **checkout form page**.

And finally, near the end of the term, *you’ll hand your pattern library off to one of your class peers who will create the **product details page**.*

Before we can get started on that stuff we need to do the UX—you’ll be graded on the completeness of your UX as Jed would expect.

## The approach & idea

There are a few primary goals to this large-scale assignment:

1. To think in terms of components and pieces instead of pages—major websites are just made up of many, many small pieces; pages are nothing more than groupings of those pieces
2. To start to think about working with other people, and how to create a system that someone else can step into and take over
  Pretend in this project that you’re the “designer” working on a team—you’re creating a system of possible patterns and some example pages
  Eventually you’ll hand off the whole system to a “developer” (your peer) to finalize the rest of the pages and make the whole thing work
3. To get lots of practice coding—because you need it

---

## Details

The subject matter of the eCommerce website is completely your choice. I’d prefer that you come up with your own company and products to sell—goofy and wacky is obviously preferred.

For the UX, create 1 InVision board with the following pieces of information:

1. **Target audience:** Who will by your products? Be specific. Personas are encouraged.
2. **Website goals:** What is your website trying to do? How is it trying to do that?
3. **Competitive analysis:** Find competitors; What do they do well? What do they do poorly?
4. **Sitemap:** Include all the possible pages that an eCommerce website would need—but we’ll only be coding a few of them
5. **A logo:** Must work well (or adapt to) these sizes: `256px`, `64px`, `32px`, `16px`
6. **Visual design:** Type, colours, sample components (buttons, cards, etc.); Sample patterns give you coding direction
7. **Wireframes:** Home page, product list page, product details page (which *you* will not be coding), checkout form page
  *These should be high-fidelity with some real text—paper is okay but use rulers*

---

## Marking rubric

Below is the rubric of expectations for this project. **You will be assigned a letter grade based on your standing within the rubric.**

| | 0 points | 1 points | 2 points | 3 points |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Target audience** | Incomplete or missing | Rushed & too generic | Specific but obviously lacking research | Specific and appropriate, with good details |
| **Website goals** | Incomplete or missing | Rushed & too generic | Okay, but could be more specific | Specific and cohesive |
| **Competitive analysis** | Incomplete or missing | Only one comparison | A couple comparisons but too light on details | A few good comparisons with a goodly amount of details |
| **Sitemap** | Incomplete or missing | Just a redo of the current site | Better than original site, but lots of important info missing | Complete, organized and simplified from the original site |
| **Logo** | Incomplete or missing | Only works well at one size | Small sizes are inconsistent with large sizes | Cohesive & uniform for all sizes, even if different |
| **Visual design** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important components or poorly executed | Average, could be more cohesive & considered | Cohesive & appropriate with a good sample of components |
| **Home page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Product list page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Product details page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Checkout form page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Professionalism** | Rushed & poorly done | Okay | Average, could use more time spent | Clearly demonstrated lots of effort and consideration |

---

## Hand in

1. Create a board on InVision with all the content
2. Submit the InVision board URL to Canvas

*Example URL:*

```
https://projects.invisionapp.com/boards/MX1IZXSBQ3AY7
```

### Discuss with the teacher

During the class that this is due you we’ll show the teacher and discuss with them what you’ve created.

Commit message:

Clarify some of the UX requirements

README.md, after:

---
summary: 'Create all the stuff Jed would expect from you before starting to write any code.'
time: '8 hours'
deliverables: '1 InVision board'
submit: 'https://algonquin.instructure.com/courses/847181/assignments/7464325'
---

# eCommerce UX

## Overview

**Throughout the term we’ll be working on the design of a complete website, specifically an eCommerce website.**

We’ll be taking the approach of making a **pattern library**, where each week we’ll be designing different components of the website.

In the second half of the term we’ll take all those common components and use them to build out a **home page**, a **product list page**, and a **checkout form page**.

And finally, near the end of the term, *you’ll hand your pattern library off to one of your class peers who will create the **product details page**.*

Before we can get started on that stuff we need to do the UX—you’ll be graded on the completeness of your UX as Jed would expect.

## The approach & idea

There are a few primary goals to this large-scale assignment:

1. To think in terms of components and pieces instead of pages—major websites are just made up of many, many small pieces; pages are nothing more than groupings of those pieces
2. To start to think about working with other people, and how to create a system that someone else can step into and take over
  Pretend in this project that you’re the “designer” working on a team—you’re creating a system of possible patterns and some example pages
  Eventually you’ll hand off the whole system to a “developer” (your peer) to finalize the rest of the pages and make the whole thing work
3. To get lots of practice coding—because you need it

---

## Details

The subject matter of the eCommerce website is completely your choice. I’d prefer that you come up with your own company and products to sell—goofy and wacky is obviously preferred.

For the UX, create 1 InVision board with the following pieces of information:

1. **Target audience:** Who will use your website? Be specific. Personas are encouraged.
2. **Website goals:** What is your website trying to do? How is it trying to do that?
3. **Competitive analysis:** Find competitors; What do they do well? What do they do poorly?
4. **Sitemap:** Include all the possible pages that an eCommerce website would need—but we’ll only be coding a few of them—show how they connect to each other
5. **A logo:** Must work well (or adapt to) these sizes: `256px`, `64px`, `32px`, `16px`
6. **Visual design:** Type & type scale, colours, sample components (buttons, cards, etc.), consider accessibility & performance when making decisions; Do some sample patterns in Illustrator/Photoshop/XD to give your coding direction
7. **Wireframes:** Home page, product list page, product details page (which *you* will not be coding), checkout form page
  *These should be high-fidelity with some real text—paper is okay but use rulers*

---

## Marking rubric

Below is the rubric of expectations for this project. **You will be assigned a letter grade based on your standing within the rubric.**

| | 0 points | 1 points | 2 points | 3 points |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Target audience** | Incomplete or missing | Rushed & too generic | Specific but obviously lacking research | Specific and appropriate, with good details |
| **Website goals** | Incomplete or missing | Rushed & too generic | Okay, but could be more specific | Specific and cohesive |
| **Competitive analysis** | Incomplete or missing | Only one comparison | A couple comparisons but too light on details | A few good comparisons with a goodly amount of details |
| **Sitemap** | Incomplete or missing | Just a redo of the current site | Better than original site, but lots of important info missing | Complete, organized and simplified from the original site |
| **Logo** | Incomplete or missing | Only works well at one size | Small sizes are inconsistent with large sizes | Cohesive & uniform for all sizes, even if different |
| **Visual design** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important components or poorly executed | Average, could be more cohesive & considered | Cohesive & appropriate with a good sample of components |
| **Home page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Product list page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Product details page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Checkout form page wireframe** | Incomplete or missing | Missing important pieces or poorly executed | Complete but not detailed enough | Complete, detailed, and a good representation to code from |
| **Professionalism** | Rushed & poorly done | Okay | Average, could use more time spent | Clearly demonstrated lots of effort and consideration |

---

## Hand in

1. Create a board on InVision with all the content
2. Submit the InVision board URL to Canvas

*Example URL:*

```
https://projects.invisionapp.com/boards/MX1IZXSBQ3AY7
```

### Discuss with the teacher

During the class that this is due you will show the teacher and discuss with them what you’ve created.
